Orbit SDK docs (#845)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/orbit-sdk-introduction.md

---
title: 'Introduction to the Arbitrum Orbit SDK'
sidebar_label: 'Orbit SDK: Introduction'
description: 'introduction to the Arbitrum Orbit SDK'
author: Mehdi Salehi
sme: Mehdi Salehi
target_audience: 'Developers deploying and maintaining Orbit chains.'
sidebar_position: 0
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from './partials/_orbit-public-preview-banner-partial.md';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

The Arbitrum Orbit SDK is a comprehensive toolkit designed for intermediate blockchain developers interested in building on the Arbitrum Orbit platform.

This SDK facilitates the creation and management of your own Orbit chain using the advanced capabilities of [Viem](https://viem.sh), a modern alternative to traditional Ethereum libraries like _ethers.js_ and _web3.js_.

> ## Arbitrum Orbit Chains

Reviewer: Should we remove this header now, and move all other h3 headers to h2 ?

Reviewer: Yeap. Feel free to mark this as "Resolved" if that's going to be merged soon.

Reviewer: Thanks!

### Capabilities of the SDK:

- **Configuration and Deployment**: Simplifies the process of configuring and deploying Orbit chain's core contracts.
- **Initialization and Management**: After deployment, the SDK helps you initialize your chain and adjust configuration parameters.
- **Ongoing Support and Updates**: Future releases will bring new features, such as tools for creating custom dashboards and monitoring systems for your Orbit chain. Feel free to return to this page regularly for updates!

Here are the steps you can take to create an Orbit chain with the Orbit SDK:

### 1. Orbit Chain Deployment

> A primary function of the Orbit SDK is the deployment of a new Orbit chain. The initial step in setting up an Orbit chain involves determining the type that best fits your needs. We offer four distinct types of Orbit chains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A primary function of the Orbit SDK is the deployment of a new Orbit chain. The initial step in setting up an Orbit chain involves determining the type that best fits your needs. We offer three distinct types of Orbit chains:
```

Or 2, if the comment below is also applied.

Reviewer: Addressed in https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs/pull/1132

2. **[AnyTrust Orbit Chains](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-anytrust-chain.md)**: AnyTrust Orbit chains are implementations of the Rollup protocol that lower costs by accepting a mild trust assumption. <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-anytrust-protocol">AnyTrust</a> chains rely on an external Data Availability Committee (DAC) to store data and provide it on-demand instead of using its <a data-quicklook-from="parent-chain">parent chain</a> as the Data Availability (DA) layer. Instead, they are stored by a <a data-quicklook-from="data-availability-committee-dac">Data Availability Committee (DAC)</a> to reduce transaction fees. The main differences between an AnyTrust chain and a rollup chain are:
   
   - **Data Availability**: AnyTrust chains utilize a unique approach, with members of a Data Availability Committee responsible for keeping transaction data, whereas rollup chains send the data back to the parent chain.

   - **Security Guarantees**: AnyTrust chains offer different security levels that might be more suited for specific applications, like gaming and social media.

>    - **Fee Cost**: AnyTrust chains are significantly cheaper than Rollup chains because there's no need to send data to the parent chain, facilitating cheaper transaction fees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Fee Cost**: AnyTrust chains are significantly cheaper than Rollup chains because there's no need to send the full transaction data to the parent chain, facilitating cheaper transaction fees.
```
Adding a small precision there, since data is still posted to the parent chain.

Reviewer: This hasn't been addressed in the new PR

   
###### Learn more about [ AnyTrust consensus mechanism ]( /inside-arbitrum-nitro/#inside-anytrust )

> 3. **[Custom Gas Token Orbit Chains](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-custom-gas-token-chain.md)**: This type allows transaction fees to be paid with a specific `ERC-20` token instead of `ETH`. Although the setup process is similar to a standard Rollup Orbit chain, there are important distinctions to consider. Feel free to consult the [Custom Gas Token Orbit chain deployment guide](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-custom-gas-token-chain.md). 

Reviewer: This could actually be another feature of AnyTrust chains, and we could place it below "Fee cost", leaving the types of Orbit chains to 2 (which is consistent with other communications around Orbit chains).

This could be argued by the Product team, if they want to market custom gas token chains as another type of chains, but I think Leart also suggested having only 2 types.

Reviewer: Latest merge removed that section.

Reviewer: Addressed in https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs/pull/1132

Reviewer: This hasn't been addressed in the new PR

Reviewer 2: I tried to apply your recommendation. Do the changes reflect what you had in mind?

---
title: 'Introduction to the Arbitrum Orbit SDK'
sidebar_label: 'Orbit SDK: Introduction'
description: 'introduction to the Arbitrum Orbit SDK'
author: Mehdi Salehi
sme: Mehdi Salehi
target_audience: 'Developers deploying and maintaining Orbit chains.'
sidebar_position: 0
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from './partials/_orbit-public-preview-banner-partial.md';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

The Arbitrum Orbit SDK is a comprehensive toolkit designed for intermediate blockchain developers interested in building on the Arbitrum Orbit platform.

> This SDK facilitates the creation and management of your own Orbit chain using the advanced capabilities of Viem, a modern alternative to traditional Ethereum libraries like _ethers.js_ and _web3.js_.

Reviewer 2: Merged manually.

## Arbitrum Orbit Chains

The Arbitrum Orbit SDK helps you to spin up an <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum-orbit">Orbit</a> chain as a <a data-quicklook-from="layer-3-l3">Layer 3 (L3)</a> chain settling transactions with any <a data-quicklook-from="layer-2-l2">Layer 2 (L2)</a> chains, or as a Layer 2 (L2) chain directly settling on <a data-quicklook-from="layer-1-l1">Layer 1 (L1)</a> chains. This adaptability opens up a realm of possibilities for application development and blockchain use cases.

> ### Enhanced Development Experience

Reviewer: This is more on Product's side, but I would simplify the introduction by removing this subsection, since it doesn't add a lot of value to the reader (IMO)

Reviewer 2: Merged manually.

The SDK is developed using _TypeScript_, providing a solid foundation for your development efforts. At the core of our SDK is _Viem_, which elevates the development experience by offering a streamlined, efficient, and modular approach to interacting with Ethereum's blockchain and smart contracts. _Viem_ and the Arbitrum Orbit SDK offer a smooth transition and easy comparison to understand the benefits and similarities between the platforms, especially with resources like [Viem's ethers.js migration guide](https://viem.sh/docs/ethers-migration.html).

### Capabilities of the SDK:

- **Configuration and Deployment**: Simplifies the process of configuring and deploying Orbit chain's core contracts.
- **Initialization and Management**: After deployment, the SDK helps you initialize your chain and adjust configuration parameters.
- **Ongoing Support and Updates**: Future releases will bring new features, such as tools for creating custom dashboards and monitoring systems for your Orbit chain. Feel free to return to this page regularly for updates!

Here are the steps you can take to create an Orbit chain with the Orbit SDK:

> ### 1. Orbit Chain Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Orbit chain deployment
```
To follow our convention: "Sentence case headers"

   
   - **Data Availability**: Anytrust chains utilize a unique approach, with members of a Data Availability Committee responsible for keeping transaction data, whereas rollup chains send the data back to the parent chain.

   - **Security Guarantees**: Anytrust chains offer different security levels that might be more suited for specific applications, like gaming and social media.

   - **Fee Cost**: Anytrust chains are significantly cheaper than Rollup chains because there's no need to send data to the parent chain, facilitating cheaper transaction fees.
   
###### Learn more about [ Anytrust consensus mechanism ]( /inside-arbitrum-nitro/#inside-anytrust )

3. **[Custom Gas Token Orbit Chains](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-custom-gas-token-chain.md)**: This type allows transaction fees to be paid with a specific `ERC-20` token instead of `ETH`. Although the setup process is similar to a standard Rollup Orbit chain, there are important distinctions to consider. Feel free to consult the [Custom Gas Token Orbit chain deployment guide](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-custom-gas-token-chain.md). 

:::important

> Custom Gas Token Orbit chains can only be Anytrust chains; a Rollup Orbit chain cannot use a custom gas fee token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom Gas Token Orbit chains can only be Anytrust chains; currently, a Rollup Orbit chain cannot use a custom gas fee token.
```
Also a question for Product, but I'd add something like the suggested, to specify that Rollup chains _might_ add support for custom tokens in the future.

Reviewer 2: Merged manually.

:::

> 4. **Orbit Chains with Outsourced DA Layers**: These chains leverage third-party Data Availability (DA) layers to transmit transaction data instead of posting it directly to the parent chain (as in rollup chains) or storing it on a DAC (as in Anytrust chains). Solutions like Celestia can support Orbit chains for this purpose.

Reviewer: We should verify with Product's team that we can mention Celestia alone in here. Other options are not mentioning any DA provider, or mentioning multiple.

Reviewer: (Resolving, since now this paragraph has been removed)

### 2. [Node Configuration Preparation](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-preparing-node-config.md)

> Once the chain has been deployed, it needs to be initialized. This step requires creating a configuration `JSON` file based on your chain deployment setup. The [preparation guide](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-preparing-node-config.md) will help you use the Orbit SDK to generate a node configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the chain has been deployed, you need to start up your node. This step requires creating a configuration `JSON` file based on your chain deployment setup. The [preparation guide](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-preparing-node-config.md) will help you use the Orbit SDK to generate a node configuration.
```
Suggesting something different than "initializing the chain".

Reviewer 2: merged.

### 3. [Token Bridge Deployment](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-token-bridge.md)

To enable `ERC-20` tokens in and out of your orbit chain, you will need to deploy a bridge instance, which consists of a set of contracts.
To do this, follow the steps outlined in the [token bridge contract deployment guide](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-deploying-token-bridge.md).

> You can also learn more about our bridge design in the [`ERC-20` token bridge orverview](/build-decentralized-apps/token-bridging/07-token-bridge-erc20.md) 

Reviewer 2: merged.

### 4. [Orbit Chain Configuration](/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/orbit-sdk-configuring-orbit-chain.md)

> After deploying the chain, initializing it, and deploying the token bridge, the chain owner must configure their Orbit chain based on the desired setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying the chain, starting up your node, and deploying the token bridge, the chain owner must configure their Orbit chain based on the desired setup. 
```
Following the same suggestion as above

Reviewer 2: Merged manually.
